where is this rice from the region of
naina tal in northern India a
picture-book landscape the rice farmers
live in harmony with nature
they say rice is life and they want to
protect this life rice is the staple
food usually accompanied by a lentil
curry and vegetables rice is also the
most important source of income with the
help of Albertus rice Muller brunnen and
the co-op sustainability fund the
farmers and their families have
converted to organic cultivation I'm
taking part in the organic farming
project we've stopped using the
chemicals we once did they caused a lot
of damage they've harmed our health the
land and our animals
organic cultivation means a lot of
manual work
the farmers weed the fields by hand or
by using a simple weeding tool
they use manure and compost to improve
the yield and set traps for insects
which are harmful to crops
during the rainy season surplus water
drains off in channels and in the dry
season they carefully direct the
precious water from the river to the
plants el Vettes employees regularly
stop by to give the farmers advice and
training the second aspect is fair trade
we call it clean trade it connects US
farmers directly with consumers this
means that the farmers can retain more
of the profit
in the group the farmers discuss what
they want to do with the Fairtrade
premium some wants simple agricultural
tools while others want to expand the
channel system these are no longer
dreams but actual real discussions
because the relationship which links
India via rice Miller Brannan to co-op
guarantees they receive a fair wage for
their work and above all it guarantees a
long term partnership
customers are also part of this
partnership every time they buy quality
basmati rice at co-op they reinforce
organic farming and Fairtrade